---
layout: post
title: RL III - Basic tutorial RLSS17 (2)
desc: 2017-W14
tags:
- 6Reinforcement
categories: 2017Course
---

| Presenter | Papers | Paper URL| Our Presentation |
| -----: | ---------------------------: | :----- | :----- |
| Anant | The Predictron: End-to-End Learning and Planning, ICLR17| [PDF](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=BkJsCIcgl) |  [PDF]({{site.baseurl}}/talks/20171130-Anant.pdf) |
| ChaoJiang | Szepesvari - Theory of RL | [RLSS.pdf](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BzUSSMdMszk6U194Ym5jSnZQbGM/view?usp=drive_web) + [Video](http://videolectures.net/deeplearning2017_szepesvari_theory_of_rl/)|  [PDF]({{site.baseurl}}/talks/20171130-Chao.pdf) |
| GaoJi  | Mastering the game of Go without human knowledge / Nature 2017 | [PDF](https://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v550/n7676/full/nature24270.html)  |  [PDF]({{site.baseurl}}/talks/20171130-Ji.pdf) |
| | Thomas - Safe Reinforcement Learning | [RLSS17.pdf](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BzUSSMdMszk6TDRMRGRaM0dBcHM/view?usp=drive_web) + [video](http://videolectures.net/deeplearning2017_thomas_safe_rl/) |
|  | Sutton - Temporal-Difference Learning | [RLSS17.pdf](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0BzUSSMdMszk6VE9kMkY2SzQzSW8/view?usp=drive_web) + [Video](http://videolectures.net/deeplearning2017_sutton_td_learning/) |






[^1]: <sub><sup>  Temporal-Difference Learning basics / https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Temporal_difference_learning /  Temporal difference (TD) learning refers to a class of model-free reinforcement learning methods which learn by bootstrapping from the current estimate of the value function. These methods sample from the environment, like Monte Carlo methods, and perform updates based on current estimates, like dynamic programming methods. While Monte Carlo methods only adjust their estimates once the final outcome is known, TD methods adjust predictions to match later, more accurate, predictions about the future before the final outcome is known. </sup></sub>


[^2]: <sub><sup>  The Predictron: End-to-End Learning and Planning, ICLR17 / David Silver/ One of the key challenges of artificial intelligence is to learn models that are effective in the context of planning. In this document we introduce the predictron architecture. The predictron consists of a fully abstract model, represented by a Markov reward process, that can be rolled forward multiple "imagined" planning steps. Each forward pass of the predictron accumulates internal rewards and values over multiple planning depths. The predictron is trained end-to-end so as to make these accumulated values accurately approximate the true value function. We applied the predictron to procedurally generated random mazes and a simulator for the game of pool. The predictron yielded significantly more accurate predictions than conventional deep neural network architectures. </sup></sub>



[^3]: <sub><sup>  Mastering the game of Go without human knowledge / Nature 2017 Google DeepMind / A long-standing goal of artificial intelligence is an algorithm that learns, tabula rasa, superhuman proficiency in challenging domains. Recently, AlphaGo became the first program to defeat a world champion in the game of Go. The tree search in AlphaGo evaluated positions and selected moves using deep neural networks. These neural networks were trained by supervised learning from human expert moves, and by reinforcement learning from self-play. Here we introduce an algorithm based solely on reinforcement learning, without human data, guidance or domain knowledge beyond game rules. AlphaGo becomes its own teacher: a neural network is trained to predict AlphaGo’s own move selections and also the winner of AlphaGo’s games. This neural network improves the strength of the tree search, resulting in higher quality move selection and stronger self-play in the next iteration. Starting tabula rasa, our new program AlphaGo Zero achieved superhuman performance, winning 100–0 against the previously published, champion-defeating AlphaGo. </sup></sub>
