---
layout: post
title: Structures17 - Adaptive Deep Networks II
desc: 2017-team
tags:
- 2Structures
- 8scalable
categories: 2017Reads
---


| Presenter | Papers | Paper URL| OurPresentation |
| -----: | ---------------------------: | :----- | :----- |
| Arshdeep | Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic Parameter Prediction [^1] | [PDF](https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.05756) |  [PDF]({{site.baseurl}}/MoreTalksTeam/Arsh/17-05-vqa-cnn.pdf) | 
| Arshdeep |  Decoupled Neural Interfaces Using Synthetic Gradients [^2]| [PDF](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.05343) |  [PDF]({{site.baseurl}}/MoreTalksTeam/Arsh/17-06-synthetic-gradients.pdf) | 
| Arshdeep |  Diet Networks: Thin Parameters for Fat Genomics [^3] | [PDF](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09340) |  [PDF]({{site.baseurl}}/MoreTalksTeam/Arsh/17-07dietnet.pdf) | 
| Arshdeep |  Metric Learning with Adaptive Density Discrimination [^4]| [PDF](https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.05939) |  [PDF]({{site.baseurl}}/MoreTalksTeam/Arsh/17-08-DistanceMetricLearning.pdf) | 


[^1]: <sub><sup> Image Question Answering using Convolutional Neural Network with Dynamic Parameter Prediction / Hyeonwoo Noh, Paul Hongsuck Seo, Bohyung Han (Submitted on 18 Nov 2015)/ We tackle image question answering (ImageQA) problem by learning a convolutional neural network (CNN) with a dynamic parameter layer whose weights are determined adaptively based on questions. For the adaptive parameter prediction, we employ a separate parameter prediction network, which consists of gated recurrent unit (GRU) taking a question as its input and a fully-connected layer generating a set of candidate weights as its output. However, it is challenging to construct a parameter prediction network for a large number of parameters in the fully-connected dynamic parameter layer of the CNN. We reduce the complexity of this problem by incorporating a hashing technique, where the candidate weights given by the parameter prediction network are selected using a predefined hash function to determine individual weights in the dynamic parameter layer. The proposed network---joint network with the CNN for ImageQA and the parameter prediction network---is trained end-to-end through back-propagation, where its weights are initialized using a pre-trained CNN and GRU. The proposed algorithm illustrates the state-of-the-art performance on all available public ImageQA benchmarks. </sup></sub>


[^2]: <sub><sup> Decoupled Neural Interfaces Using Synthetic Gradients / Max Jaderberg, Wojciech Marian Czarnecki, Simon Osindero, Oriol Vinyals, Alex Graves, David Silver, Koray Kavukcuoglu (Submitted on 18 Aug 2016 (v1), last revised 3 Jul 2017 (this version, v2))/ Training directed neural networks typically requires forward-propagating data through a computation graph, followed by backpropagating error signal, to produce weight updates. All layers, or more generally, modules, of the network are therefore locked, in the sense that they must wait for the remainder of the network to execute forwards and propagate error backwards before they can be updated. In this work we break this constraint by decoupling modules by introducing a model of the future computation of the network graph. These models predict what the result of the modelled subgraph will produce using only local information. In particular we focus on modelling error gradients: by using the modelled synthetic gradient in place of true backpropagated error gradients we decouple subgraphs, and can update them independently and asynchronously i.e. we realise decoupled neural interfaces. We show results for feed-forward models, where every layer is trained asynchronously, recurrent neural networks (RNNs) where predicting one's future gradient extends the time over which the RNN can effectively model, and also a hierarchical RNN system with ticking at different timescales. Finally, we demonstrate that in addition to predicting gradients, the same framework can be used to predict inputs, resulting in models which are decoupled in both the forward and backwards pass -- amounting to independent networks which co-learn such that they can be composed into a single functioning corporation. </sup></sub>


[^3]: <sub><sup> Diet Networks: Thin Parameters for Fat Genomics / Adriana Romero, Pierre Luc Carrier, Akram Erraqabi, Tristan Sylvain, Alex Auvolat, Etienne Dejoie, Marc-André Legault, Marie-Pierre Dubé, Julie G. Hussin, Yoshua Bengio / ICLR17/ Learning tasks such as those involving genomic data often poses a serious challenge: the number of input features can be orders of magnitude larger than the number of training examples, making it difficult to avoid overfitting, even when using the known regularization techniques. We focus here on tasks in which the input is a description of the genetic variation specific to a patient, the single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), yielding millions of ternary inputs. Improving the ability of deep learning to handle such datasets could have an important impact in precision medicine, where high-dimensional data regarding a particular patient is used to make predictions of interest. Even though the amount of data for such tasks is increasing, this mismatch between the number of examples and the number of inputs remains a concern. Naive implementations of classifier neural networks involve a huge number of free parameters in their first layer: each input feature is associated with as many parameters as there are hidden units. We propose a novel neural network parametrization which considerably reduces the number of free parameters. It is based on the idea that we can first learn or provide a distributed representation for each input feature (e.g. for each position in the genome where variations are observed), and then learn (with another neural network called the parameter prediction network) how to map a feature's distributed representation to the vector of parameters specific to that feature in the classifier neural network (the weights which link the value of the feature to each of the hidden units). We show experimentally on a population stratification task of interest to medical studies that the proposed approach can significantly reduce both the number of parameters and the error rate of the classifier. </sup></sub>


[^4]: <sub><sup> Metric Learning with Adaptive Density Discrimination / ICLR 2016 / Oren Rippel, Manohar Paluri, Piotr Dollar, Lubomir Bourdev/ Distance metric learning (DML) approaches learn a transformation to a representation space where distance is in correspondence with a predefined notion of similarity. While such models offer a number of compelling benefits, it has been difficult for these to compete with modern classification algorithms in performance and even in feature extraction. In this work, we propose a novel approach explicitly designed to address a number of subtle yet important issues which have stymied earlier DML algorithms. It maintains an explicit model of the distributions of the different classes in representation space. It then employs this knowledge to adaptively assess similarity, and achieve local discrimination by penalizing class distribution overlap. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this idea on several tasks. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art classification results on a number of fine-grained visual recognition datasets, surpassing the standard softmax classifier and outperforming triplet loss by a relative margin of 30-40%. In terms of computational performance, it alleviates training inefficiencies in the traditional triplet loss, reaching the same error in 5-30 times fewer iterations. Beyond classification, we further validate the saliency of the learnt representations via their attribute concentration and hierarchy recovery properties, achieving 10-25% relative gains on the softmax classifier and 25-50% on triplet loss in these tasks. </sup></sub>
