---
layout: post
title: LLM fine tuning
lecture: W14-LLM-FineTuning
lectureVersion: current
extraContent: 
notes: team-5
video: team-1
tags:
- Alignment
desc: 2024-S25
term: 2024-seminarRead
categories:
- FMAdapt
---


In this session, our readings cover: 

## Required Readings: 


### Recent Large Language Models Reshaping the Open-Source Arena
+ https://deci.ai/blog/list-of-large-language-models-in-open-source/
+ The release of Meta’s Llama model and the subsequent release of Llama 2 in 2023 kickstarted an explosion of open-source language models, with better and more innovative models being released on what seems like a daily basis. With new open-source models being released on a daily basis, here we dove into the ocean of open-source possibilities to curate a select list of the most intriguing and influential models making waves in recent months, inlcuding Qwen1.5/ Yi/ Smaug/ Mixtral-8x7B-v0.1/ DBRX/ SOLAR-10.7B-v1.0 / Tulu 2 / WizardLM/ Starling 7B/ OLMo-7B/ Gemma and DeciLM-7B. 
+ Plus the newly avaiable DBRX model  https://www.databricks.com/blog/introducing-dbrx-new-state-art-open-llm



### Instruction Tuning for Large Language Models: A Survey
+ https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.10792
+ Shengyu Zhang, Linfeng Dong, Xiaoya Li, Sen Zhang, Xiaofei Sun, Shuhe Wang, Jiwei Li, Runyi Hu, Tianwei Zhang, Fei Wu, Guoyin Wang
+ This paper surveys research works in the quickly advancing field of instruction tuning (IT), a crucial technique to enhance the capabilities and controllability of large language models (LLMs). Instruction tuning refers to the process of further training LLMs on a dataset consisting of \textsc{(instruction, output)} pairs in a supervised fashion, which bridges the gap between the next-word prediction objective of LLMs and the users' objective of having LLMs adhere to human instructions. In this work, we make a systematic review of the literature, including the general methodology of IT, the construction of IT datasets, the training of IT models, and applications to different modalities, domains and applications, along with an analysis on aspects that influence the outcome of IT (e.g., generation of instruction outputs, size of the instruction dataset, etc). We also review the potential pitfalls of IT along with criticism against it, along with efforts pointing out current deficiencies of existing strategies and suggest some avenues for fruitful research. Project page: this http URL

### Delta tuning: A comprehensive study of parameter efficient methods for pre-trained language models 
+ https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.06904
+ Despite the success, the process of fine-tuning large-scale PLMs brings prohibitive adaptation costs. In fact, fine-tuning all the parameters of a colossal model and retaining separate instances for different tasks are practically infeasible. This necessitates a new branch of research focusing on the parameter-efficient adaptation of PLMs, dubbed as delta tuning in this paper. In contrast with the standard fine-tuning, delta tuning only fine-tunes a small portion of the model parameters while keeping the rest untouched, largely reducing both the computation and storage costs. Recent studies have demonstrated that a series of delta tuning methods with distinct tuned parameter selection could achieve performance on a par with full-parameter fine-tuning, suggesting a new promising way of stimulating large-scale PLMs. In this paper, we first formally describe the problem of delta tuning and then comprehensively review recent delta tuning approaches. We also propose a unified categorization criterion that divide existing delta tuning methods into three groups: addition-based, specification-based, and reparameterization-based methods. Though initially proposed as an efficient method to steer large models, we believe that some of the fascinating evidence discovered along with delta tuning could help further reveal the mechanisms of PLMs and even deep neural networks. To this end, we discuss the theoretical principles underlying the effectiveness of delta tuning and propose frameworks to interpret delta tuning from the perspective of optimization and optimal control, respectively. Furthermore, we provide a holistic empirical study of representative methods, where results on over 100 NLP tasks demonstrate a comprehensive performance comparison of different approaches. The experimental results also cover the analysis of combinatorial, scaling and transferable properties of delta tuning.


## More readings


### Gemini: A Family of Highly Capable Multimodal Models
+ https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11805
+ This report introduces a new family of multimodal models, Gemini, that exhibit remarkable capabilities across image, audio, video, and text understanding. The Gemini family consists of Ultra, Pro, and Nano sizes, suitable for applications ranging from complex reasoning tasks to on-device memory-constrained use-cases. Evaluation on a broad range of benchmarks shows that our most-capable Gemini Ultra model advances the state of the art in 30 of 32 of these benchmarks - notably being the first model to achieve human-expert performance on the well-studied exam benchmark MMLU, and improving the state of the art in every one of the 20 multimodal benchmarks we examined. We believe that the new capabilities of Gemini models in cross-modal reasoning and language understanding will enable a wide variety of use cases and we discuss our approach toward deploying them responsibly to users.



### QLoRA: Efficient Finetuning of Quantized LLMs
  + Tim Dettmers, Artidoro Pagnoni, Ari Holtzman, Luke Zettlemoyer
We present QLoRA, an efficient finetuning approach that reduces memory usage enough to finetune a 65B parameter model on a single 48GB GPU while preserving full 16-bit finetuning task performance. QLoRA backpropagates gradients through a frozen, 4-bit quantized pretrained language model into Low Rank Adapters~(LoRA). Our best model family, which we name Guanaco, outperforms all previous openly released models on the Vicuna benchmark, reaching 99.3% of the performance level of ChatGPT while only requiring 24 hours of finetuning on a single GPU. QLoRA introduces a number of innovations to save memory without sacrificing performance: (a) 4-bit NormalFloat (NF4), a new data type that is information theoretically optimal for normally distributed weights (b) double quantization to reduce the average memory footprint by quantizing the quantization constants, and (c) paged optimziers to manage memory spikes. We use QLoRA to finetune more than 1,000 models, providing a detailed analysis of instruction following and chatbot performance across 8 instruction datasets, multiple model types (LLaMA, T5), and model scales that would be infeasible to run with regular finetuning (e.g. 33B and 65B parameter models). Our results show that QLoRA finetuning on a small high-quality dataset leads to state-of-the-art results, even when using smaller models than the previous SoTA. We provide a detailed analysis of chatbot performance based on both human and GPT-4 evaluations showing that GPT-4 evaluations are a cheap and reasonable alternative to human evaluation. Furthermore, we find that current chatbot benchmarks are not trustworthy to accurately evaluate the performance levels of chatbots. A lemon-picked analysis demonstrates where Guanaco fails compared to ChatGPT. We release all of our models and code, including CUDA kernels for 4-bit training.



### related:  LoRA: Low-Rank Adaptation of Large Language Models
+ https://arxiv.org/abs/2106.09685
+ An important paradigm of natural language processing consists of large-scale pre-training on general domain data and adaptation to particular tasks or domains. As we pre-train larger models, full fine-tuning, which retrains all model parameters, becomes less feasible. Using GPT-3 175B as an example -- deploying independent instances of fine-tuned models, each with 175B parameters, is prohibitively expensive. We propose Low-Rank Adaptation, or LoRA, which freezes the pre-trained model weights and injects trainable rank decomposition matrices into each layer of the Transformer architecture, greatly reducing the number of trainable parameters for downstream tasks. Compared to GPT-3 175B fine-tuned with Adam, LoRA can reduce the number of trainable parameters by 10,000 times and the GPU memory requirement by 3 times. LoRA performs on-par or better than fine-tuning in model quality on RoBERTa, DeBERTa, GPT-2, and GPT-3, despite having fewer trainable parameters, a higher training throughput, and, unlike adapters, no additional inference latency. We also provide an empirical investigation into rank-deficiency in language model adaptation, which sheds light on the efficacy of LoRA. We release a package that facilitates the integration of LoRA with PyTorch models and provide our implementations and model checkpoints for RoBERTa, DeBERTa, and GPT-2 at this https URL. 



### Astraios: Parameter-Efficient Instruction Tuning Code Large Language Models
+ https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.00788
+ Terry Yue Zhuo, Armel Zebaze, Nitchakarn Suppattarachai, Leandro von Werra, Harm de Vries, Qian Liu, Niklas Muennighoff
+ The high cost of full-parameter fine-tuning (FFT) of Large Language Models (LLMs) has led to a series of parameter-efficient fine-tuning (PEFT) methods. However, it remains unclear which methods provide the best cost-performance trade-off at different model scales. We introduce Astraios, a suite of 28 instruction-tuned OctoCoder models using 7 tuning methods and 4 model sizes up to 16 billion parameters. Through investigations across 5 tasks and 8 different datasets encompassing both code comprehension and code generation tasks, we find that FFT generally leads to the best downstream performance across all scales, and PEFT methods differ significantly in their efficacy based on the model scale. LoRA usually offers the most favorable trade-off between cost and performance. Further investigation into the effects of these methods on both model robustness and code security reveals that larger models tend to demonstrate reduced robustness and less security. At last, we explore the relationships among updated parameters, cross-entropy loss, and task performance. We find that the tuning effectiveness observed in small models generalizes well to larger models, and the validation loss in instruction tuning can be a reliable indicator of overall downstream performance.
